Problem Statement:
1. What is the testing process that will be followed in the company?
2. What is the focus of the testing services?
3. What kind of people are you going to hire as staff for the company?
4. How are you going to validate that a testing project carried out in the company has been beneficial to the customer?
5. What kind of automated tools will the company use?
Solution:
Answer 1: The testing process that will be followed by the company is:
a) Prepare for testing a software system.
b) Plan the tests that will be conducted on the software system.
c) Execute the steps as defined in the test plan.
d) Conduct acceptance testing by the software system users. (Note: This testing may be assisted by the IT independent test group.)
e) Analyse test results and report them to the appropriate software system stakeholders.
f) Test the installation of the software into the operational environment, and test changes made to the software after it is placed into the operational environment.
g) Conduct a post-implementation analysis to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the test process.
Answer 2:
The focus of testing services will be on:
a) Software testing should reduce software development risk. Risk is present in all software development projects, and testing is a control that reduces those risks.
b) Testing should be performed effectively. Testing should be performed in a manner in which the maximum benefits are achieved from the software testing efforts.
c) Testing should uncover defects. Ideally, at the conclusion of testing there should be no defects in the software.
d) Testing should be performed using business logic. Money should not be spent on testing unless it can be spent economically to reduce business risk. In other words, it does not make business sense to spend more money on testing than the losses that might occur from the business risk.
e) Testing should occur throughout the development life cycle. Testing is not a phase, but rather a process. It begins when development begins and ends when the software is no longer being used.
f) Testing should test both structure and function. Testing should test the functional requirements to ensure they are correct, and test the adequacy of the software structure to process those functional requirements in an effective and efficient manner.
Answer 3:
The company will recruit people with the following qualities:
1. A clear communicator. A defect report is no good if we can't understand it.
Software Testing
4
2. Patient. Sometimes it takes a lot of back-and-forth to get to the root of a problem. And programmers have egos, they'll often try to push issues back to the tester.
3. Passionate. The best developers are the ones that really care about development and maybe even get a little excited about it sometimes. Testing isn't that much different.
4. Creative. Really exercising a system requires one to try non-intuitive ways of accomplishing tasks, to go outside the workflow that the program expects of them and do things that normal users wouldn't do. Task-oriented people who receive a set of instructions and do the exact same thing every time are no good for this job.
5. Analytical. Just finding a defect isn't enough - a tester has to be able to figure out how to reproduce it. If a report comes in as "intermittent" then there's about a 10% chance it'll get solved. Most developers won't even look at a case without a reasonably concise sequence of repro steps. Good testers have to be able to retrace their steps and narrow down the field of possibilities so as to come up with the simplest possible sequence of actions that trigger a bug.
6. Not a programmer. Programmers never want to do any actual work testing. They'll spend all their time trying to write automated tests and not do what really matters, which is to make sure the damn thing actually works the way it is supposed to. Although there are exceptions to every rule, most programmers simply find testing boring and will do the absolute minimum amount required.
Answer 4:
Answer 5:
Write about any 5 automation tools:
a) Selenium
b) AutoIT
c) Bugzilla
Software Testing
5
d) QTP
e) WAPT
f) Win runner
g) VTest